The control systems that we design for the
joints of our robot have got a long ancestry.
Human beings have been devising control systems
for a long time. It’s been part of our ongoing
process to harness the power of nature.
Here’s the schematic of a device invented
by Hero of Alexandria around 2000 years ago
and its purpose was to maintain a constant
water level in the right most vessel. A constant
water level result in a constant pressure
and that was important for accurate time keeping
with a water powered clock.
A related but more recent instance of this is the
control of water level in the system of a
flush toilet. A very simple mechanism, if the
water level is less than the desired level,
water flows into the tank and if the water
level is greater than or equal to the desired
level then it stops flowing into the tank.
Here’s an innovation that was important
in harnessing wind power. If the main blades
are not pointing directly into the wind then
some wind will pass through the small fan
tail. And that will cause the whole top of
the windmill to rotate so it points
the main blades directly into the wind.
A really important invention, perhaps under
pinned the industrial revolution, is the centrifugal
governor invented or at least perfected by
James Watt. If the steam engine is running
too fast then the centrifugal governor reduces
the amount of steam going into the engine.
And similarly if the engine is going too slowly
it allows more steam into the engine and it
allows the engine to run at constant speed
even though the load on the engine may be varying.
It took a long time to come up with a general
theory of control and a lot of very smart
people contributed to this over a long period
of time. Harald Black, shown here in the
middle, really formalized the theory of negative
feedback and that is you subtract the output
of the system from the desired input to the
system. This technique was patented by Black
to improve the performance of amplifiers used
in long distance telephone networks.
A really big innovation in control came with
the introduction of affordable small digital
computers and perhaps one of the first and
perhaps best known examples of this was the
small digital computer that was built to navigate
Apollo spacecraft to the moon and to guide
the lunar module from orbit onto the moon’s
surface.
Here again is the diagram that shows the components
of a typical robot joint control system and
we see here the negative feedback loop where
we have the desired position and also feedback
of the actual position.
One part of the system that we haven’t yet
talked about is the position sensor. The most common
technique for sensing the angle of an electric
model is once called an incremental encoder.
Here we can see some examples of incremental
encoders and typically the incremental encoder
is fitted to one end of the motor assembly.
So these days you buy an integrated motor
assembly it’s an electric motor. It’s
got a gear box and it’s got an encoder which provides signals to tell you the angle of the motor shaft.
The principle of an incremental encoder is
pretty simple. We have a slotted disk on the
motor shaft and a pair of LEDs shine light
through the slots and that are picked up by a pair
of photo detectors. The two LEDs are positioned
a half slot apart, so the output signals from
the detectors looks something like this when
the motor is spinning in the clockwise direction
and it looks something like this when the
motor is spinning in the counter clockwise direction.
In order to determine the motor angle all
we need to do is to count the pulses but it’s
important to know whether we’re counting up or down and that depends on the direction of rotation.
The direction of rotation is actually very
easy to determine. We look at the rising edge
of the A signal and we measure the value of
the B signal. If the B signal is zero on the
rising edge then we’re moving clockwise
and if the B signal is one on the rising edge
then the motor is rotating in the counter
clockwise direction.
Incremental encoders are simple and cheap.
They give us the direction of rotation and
also the rotational speed that comes from
the number of pulses per second. If we count
the pulses we can determine the angular position
of the motor shaft because the output signals
of the photo detectors are binary, very easy
to interface to a cheap micro controller.
Another important component in the robot joint
control system is the micro controller. Modern
micro controllers pack an awful lot of functionality
into a very small package. They have analogue
input and output, digital input and output,
perhaps they've got serial ports.
Internally they have a large number of counters
and timers and pulse with modulation generators
in addition to a small computer with RAM and
sometimes non-volatile memory as well. They’re
easy to interface to a network to a keyboard
and a display; very, very versatile and today
very, very low cost devices.
Finally the robot joint controller looks something
like this. We have the joint controller itself
which is an algorithm running in the joint
controller inside an embedded micro processor.
Typically it outputs a pulse-width-modulated
signal to the motor drive, which is this H
bridge circuit that drives the actuator, a
small electric motor. There is a gearbox which
connects the electric motor to the robot joint
and we use a gearbox to amplify the relatively
low torque from the electric motor to the
larger torque which is needed to move the
link of the robot.
We use an incremental encoder to measure the
position of the motor shaft and we can pair
that with the desired position that we want
the joint to have that goes into the joint
controller and the loop is closed.
We can create a dynamic model of that robot
joint controller system. A critical part of
this is the summing junction. This is where
we input the desired position of the robot
joint and we subtract from that actual position.
This is the essence of a negative feedback
system, the desired position minus the actual
position. The result of that is the error
in position and that goes into a control law.
The output of the control law is a signal
that goes to the motor driver and applies
some arbitrary gain I call it KD and generates
a current is applied to the transfer function
for the actuator, which is shown here.
The result of which is position of the motor.
We have a sensor, which measures the position
of the motor and our model that by a gain
of one and this is the signal, which is subtracted
from the desired position.